Now, I'm going to take you through how I use an image viewer to
view clinical cases day-to-day,
and take you through a tour of some of the features of these things.
To do so, we're going to revisit the brain MRI data
set that you used in exploratory data analysis,
but now, you'll see how it's used in a clinical context. Let's dive in.
So to begin, let me take you through in tour of the interface.
Here in the center, we see the display protocol,
also known as the hanging protocol.
In this right column,
this is a patient study from a particular date.
In the left column,
for the same patient, a prior study.
So this is the more recent one,
this is the one done before.
Here, we can see, for a given study,
the multiple series that are contained within that study.
So just as you heard about before, things like T1,
T2, here, we see those types of sequences but in addition,
more sequences such as FLAIR,
we have some perfusion imaging sequences,
some diffusion-weighted imaging sequences,
and the point of that is all of these add to the diagnostic accuracy.
We see the same thing here for the more recent study.
On the top, we have the tools that we work
with to get some information such as measurements or optimizing what we're seeing.
So here, we have the brain MRI data that you explored before in the EDA lesson,
and we're looking at this patient's brain tumor here.
This being the enhancing portion,
meaning it's taken up contrast after we injected the patient with contrast media,
and here, on the flair image which is sensitive for fluids,
we can see some of that peritoneal edema.
Now, when reviewing the images,
one of the main questions we're going to want to know is how has this changed in size?
So here, we look at this enhancing component and compare it to here,
and we can use measurement tools to take some measurements in the greatest axial plane,
for example, I'm just doing rough measurements here,
and compare it to the prior.
We can see that it's gotten a little bigger in the axial plane.
Now, as you may recall in the segmentation lesson,
one interesting area would be to get
the volume of the tumor and compare volumes over time.
You can see here in the current practice,
we would do this normally in three planes.
So two measurements in axial,
maybe one in the coronal or sagittal plane to get the cranial caudal dimension,
but volumes maybe a promising avenue to follow.
So besides measuring tools, what else can we do?
We can zoom in and out of the image if we need to take particular attention to a region,
we may need to window and level to make things stand out.
Let's say, I wanted to get a better look at the fat here on the orbit,
I can zoom in and change my settings so that I can
optimize how clearly the fat stands out with respect to the additional structures.
In addition, it's important that
the images are linked such that when I'm scrolling through one particular series,
the other one follows.
Currently, we don't really have a good way of actually linking across time,
and that's another potential avenue that could be explored,
is having intelligent applications that can register these images to compare across time.
That's a foundational view of how these are used day-to-day.
Present images, priors, review of multiple series to obtain different information,
and performing rudimentary measurements to have
a quantitative approach about change over time.
So a few additional things.
Well, this isn't going to be a course teaching you how to read MRIs,
I do want to show you a few key sequences
that you're going to see as you explore your data.
First, I want to compare the T2 to the FLAIR.
Now, you'll see that both the T2 and the FLAIR make things that are fluid or edema,
in this case, light up quite nicely.
However, there's a difference.
Note here in between the sulci,
these crevices within the brain,
as well as in the ventricles how the fluid is bright on T2 but is dark on FLAIR.
You can think of FLAIR as a sequence that's suppresses
normal fluids and keeps fluids that are from a disease state,
bright This is a bit of an oversimplification but works most of the time.
Few other key sequences.
We'll look at the T1pre here,
and I'm going to pull over the T1post.
What do I mean by T1post?
This was taken before contrast agent administration,
this one was taken after.
It's always important to see,
whenever you think something is enhancing on post,
you need to confirm that it's not intrinsically bright on T1,
and we can see here that it is not.
What do I mean by that? It's dark on the T1pre,
bright on T1post, indicating that this portion of the tumor has indeed taken up contrast.
Now, putting it all together,
this is how I would report something.
Now, of course, this isn't a formal report but I'm just doing it for example purposes.
But once I've taken a look at all the images and understood what's going on,
I'll then deliver the information in a succinct fashion in a dictated report.
So I would say something like, "Compared to 11/19/1991,
we see interval growth of the mass within the left frontal parietal region,
measuring 3.47 by 3.32 centimeters as compared to 2.63 by 2.53 centimeters.
In addition, there has been mild increase in the surrounding peritumoral edema period."
In that case, my overall impression would be: compared to the prior,
the disease has progressed.
Now again, I don't have
the patient's full information here and that may be an oversimplification,
but that is the essence of imaging review and
then summarizing the findings in an actionable form.
So hopefully, that's given you a little bit of an insight peak on how
these tools are used day-to-day and perhaps,
informing you of when you're developing your algorithms,
where you may inject them into the daily workflow.